Jedi Guardian:

The Jedi Guardian is similar to Kotor I's Jedi Guardian. You get the force
jump and it's primary focus is on combat. The class skills you get are 
awareness, demolitions, persuade, and treat injury.

Jedi Sentinal:

The Jedi Sentinal is also similar to the one we had in Kotor I. You are imune
to fear and critical hits. Class skills are awareness, computer use, persuade,
security, stealth, and treat injury.

Jedi Consular:

The Jedi Consular is similar as we saw in Kotor I. You get the most force 
points per level and there are times where you will get 2 force powers when you
level up.

The absolute best way to play the game is with a Jedi Sentinal. The Sentinal
gets the most skill points, the most class skills, and the inability to be 
stunned or paralyzed. Skills in Kotor II are very, very important. You use the
skills you have to create items on a workbench. The higher your skill, the 
better item you can make. Of course, you can use your party members to create
items for you if their skill is higher. It is much easier and much better to 
have the skills you need yourself. More skill = more xp = more times leveling
up. The game does not have a level cap at 20 (yay!) so you can continue 
leveling up your character to your hearts content. The earlier in the game you
invest in skills the easier it will be to build other areas of your character.
In addition, having skills needed to complete a task can also give you a bonus
to one of your attributes.

Of course, I will guide those who want to be Jedi Guardians and Consulars. You
won't pass all the skill checks, but you will still be able to complete the 
game.

The only time gender matters is with someone who joins you. Handmaiden joins if
you are male and Deciple joins if you are female. Beyond that it doesn't make
any difference at all.

B.  Portrait

You just select what you want your character to look like. Not very important.

C.  Attributes:

After selecting what you want your character to look like, you will be taken to
the atributes screen. There are six attributes total.

Strength:

Strength determins how well you are able to attack an enemy with swords or a 
lightsaber.

Dexterity:

Dexterity determines how well you can dodge attacks. For people who use range
weapons it also determines how well you can hit with them.

Constitution:

Constitution determines your health. It also is involved in what types of 
implants you can get. The implant requirements involve your actual constitution
level. In other words if you had 12 constitution and the implant required 14
constitution, raising your levels with armor or weapons will not work. You have
to raise your actual level.

Intelligence:

Intelligence gives a bonus to several skills as well as determines how many
skill points you get at the beginning of the game and per level.

Wisdom:

Wisdom involves how well you are able to resist other's force powers, and how
well others can succumb to yours. A high wisdom allows you to resist more force
powers and makes your powers harder to resist.

Charisma:

Charisma stacks with will in regards to force powers. It also gives a bonus to
persuade.

All attributes in the game are involved in dialogue options or can make things
easier for you to be able to do. For this reason, it is not wise to have many
attributes less than 12. Attributes at 12 get a +1 modifier, which means the
respective area gets one bonus point. If the attribute is set at 8 the modifier
will be -1.

Now for the stats:

Guardian:


Strength:		14
Dexterity:		14
Constitution:		14
Intelligence:		8 
Wisdom:			14
Charisma:		14

With an intelligence of 8 you will get a modifier of -1. You won't ever be
skilled, but you will be well rounded in combat. I would increase Constitution
up the first two times you can raise an attribute for implant purposes. Then
alternate between strength and wisdom for the rest of the game.

Sentinel:

Strength:		14
Dexterity:		10
Constitution:		12
Intelligence:		16
Wisdom:			12
Charisma:		12

The reason why we are taking such a high intelligence is because of the skill
points per level criteria. With 16 intelligence early in the game it won't be
necessary to upgrade the intelligence attribute any further. That allows you
to focus on the other attributes. Yes you will be somewhat weaker than the
guardian at the beginning of the game but as the game progresses you can still
become ferocious with a lightsaber.

I would focus on upgrading dexterity the first two times you get to leve up an
attribute. Then if you want implants you can put the rest into constitution.
Or you can alternate between wisdom and strength.

Consular:

Strength:		12
Dexterity:		10
Constitution:		15
Intelligence:		10
Wisdom:			16
Charisma:		12

The Consular is primarily a force user. In choosing this clas you probably 
want to focus more on force powers than skilling and combat. As the class that
has the least vitality you will need a good start in constitution. Put one 
point in constitution for implant purposes then wisdom the rest of the way.

D.  Skills

All skills are used to create items on a workbench and all skills are involved
in dialogue options.

Computer Use: Allows you to hack into a computer and reprogram it in various
ways using computer spikes. The higher the skill the less parts you use. You
can also program droids this way.

Demolitions: (stop taking at 20 ranks) Demolitions lets you disable/recover
mines in the game. The higher the skill the greater chance you will be able to
recover or disable a mine. Recovering is harder than disableing.

Stealth: Stealth is used to sneak around unseen for a while. I wouldn't use it
to avoid combat. I would use it to sneak attack or for the workbench.

Awareness: (stop taking at 15 ranks) Lets you spot mines. The higher your
awareness the better you are at spotting mines.

Persuade: Allows you to get others to do what you want them to do. Give them 
your side of the argument.

Repair: Allows you to repair droids or computers to get them working again 
using repair parts. The higher your skill the less parts you will need.

Security: (stop taking at 20 ranks) Allows you to open doors and locks that are
locked. The higher your security skill is the better chance you have at opening
secure doors or locks.

Treat Injury: Gives you more vitality when you heal using medpacks.

I have in parenthesis (stop taking at x ranks) because that will be all you 
need to perform any skill check in the game. If you see a higher level item 
that you want then obviously keep upgrading the skill or have another party
member keep up with it. The security skill will probably be the only skill 
where you will fail towards the very end of the game, and the rank it looks for
is a total rank of 55. Not worth the skill points you could use at other areas.

Guardian:

Computer Use:		0
Demolitions:		1
Stealth:		0
Awareness:		1
Persuade:		1
Repair:			0
Security:		0
Treat Injury:		1

All of the class skills the Guardian has are needed at the beginning of the
game. I'd focus on demolitions and awareness the first two times leveling up.
Then keep all the class skills about the same level as each other with persuade
and treat injury taking priority.

Sentinel:

Computer Use:		4
Demolitions:		1
Stealth:		0
Awareness:		4
Persuade:		4
Repair:			1
Security:		4
Treat Injury:		4

With the Sentinel if you get the repair class skill and demolitions class skill
you will have enough points to level up half of your skills. Give a few points
to demolitions the first time you level up so you can recover mines (recovering
is more xp than disarming.) Beyond that focus on keeping your skills *about*
the same level as each other. Your highest priorities are persuade, treat
injury, security, and demolitions in that order. Your lowest priority should be
stealth and (after you reach about 15 ranks) awareness because you'll be able
to spot any mine no matter how deadly.

Consular:

Computer Use:		0
Demolitions:		1
Stealth:		0
Awareness:		2
Persuade:		2
Repair:			0
Security:		0
Treat Injury:		2

The reason why we put a point in demolitions instead of other areas is because
we will need to disable plenty of mines in the first part of the game. After
all, you don't want to blow yourself up right?

With regard to skills once you hit a workbench it tells you exactly what skills
you need to create the item in question. Check out the stats of each item and
ask yourself if it is something you would want to use. If so, keep upgrading
that particular skill. If you do not see an item you want then you can stop
investing in that skill.

E.  Feats

Below is a list of feats and the grade I give for them.

Two Weapon Fighting - Master Two Weapon Fighting - A+

Reducing any attack penalty is always a good thing. Why fight with only one
weapon when you can have two? Or why be penalized for wielding a double bladed
weapon?

Armor Proficiency Light-Heavy B

Unlike Kotor I there IS armor you can wear that does not restrict force powers.
Most of that armor though isn't heavy or medium armor so upgrading this feat
is not necessary.

Caution - Master Caution C

Demolitions and stealth are needed, but you can just upgrade both skills more
times than selecting those feats. I'd skip it.

Critical Strike - Master Critical Strike A-

I don't use this one very much because it lowers your defense by 5. Still, the
stunning bonus of this feat can be useful.

Empathy - Master Empathy A

Persuade, awareness, and treat injury are all needed. I'd only take this if you
don't get many skill points per level.

Flurry - Master Flurry A+

I consider this the best melee attack in the game. You gain an extra attack
during the round with no penalty at the master level. When this feat is stacked
with the extra attacks master speed gives you then you become an unstoppable
killing machine.

Gear Head - Master Gear Head - C

Repair and computer use are not on the high priorty list of skills to upgrade.
Security is a good skill to upgrade, but there's not much point in using this
feat.

Conditioning - Master Conditioning - A+

Gives you a bonus to saving throws meaning enemies have a harder time hitting
you with critical hits.

Power Attack - Master Power Attack - A

The only drawback is the -3 to hit penalty. I would take this only after taking
flurry.

Power Blast - Master Power Blast - A

Use this feat for ranged party members only. Power blast is the ranged 
equivalent of power attack.

Rapid Shot - Master Rapid Shot - A+

Use this feat for ranged party members only. Rapid shot is the ranged 
equivalent of flurry

Sniper Shot - Master Sniper Shot - A

Use this feat for ranged party members only. Sniper shot is the ranged
equivalent of critical strike.

Weapon Proficiency Blaster Pistol - Weapon Specialization Blaster Pistol - A

Use this feat only for ranged party members who weild regular blasters.

Weapon Proficiency Blaster Rifle - Weapon Specialization Blaster Rifle - A

Use this feat only for ranged party members who wield blaster rifles

Weapon Proficiency Lightsaber - Weapon Specialization Lightsaber - A+

This feat gives a small damage bonus for lightsabers. Every little bit helps.

Weapon Proficiency Melee - Weapon Specialization Melee - F

No one needs this feat, except perhaps Hanharr but I don't ever use him in
combat.

Jedi Defense - Master Jedi Defense - A+

Gives you a bonus to all deflection rolls. Every little bit helps.

Toughness - Master Toughness - A+

An extra vitality point plus damage reduction? Sweet!

Force Jump - Master Force Jump (Jedi Guardin only)

You get these feats for free. It allows you to jump from a distance to attack
an enemy.

Force Immunity: Fear - Force Immunity: Paralysis (Jedi Sentinel Only)

This feat prevents you from being stunned, paralyzed, and negates the force
powers fear, horror, and insanity when used against you.

Force Focus - Master Force Focus (Jedi Consular Only)

This feat makes it harder for an enemy to resist force powers.

Dueling - A

Two weapons are better than one. For the exile I would suggest you skip it.
There are party members who will benefit from this feat though.

Close Combat - A+

Use for ranged party members only it gives a bonus when the target is short
range. Very handy.

Regenerate Force Points - C

You regenerate them out of combat anyway with exception of a small amount of
time for light players.

Class Skill (Any skill your character that is cross class) - A+

You get to be able to raise the skill in question more easily since it will now
be a class skill.

Duel Strike - Master Duel Strike - A+

Gives you a bonus to hit if another party member is attacking the target.

Finesse Lightsaber - A

Chance to hit is determined by the highest of either dexterity or strength.
Without this feat it would be determined by strength.

Finesse Melee Weapons - F

Unnecessary. No one will need this.

Regenerate Vitality Points - F

Unnecessary. You regenerate out of combat anyway.

Stealth Run - A

I'd only take this one if you're actually using the stealth skill to sneak
around. Otherwise it's pointless.

Precise Shot I - Precise Shot V - A+

Use for ranged party members only. Adds a bonus to the damage done to an
opponent and applies a penalty to the opponent if the opponent makes any
attempt to deflect the bolt other than grenades or lightsabers.

Jedi Sense

Another feat you get for free.

Guardians:

I would start the game off with Empathy since all three of those skills are
important.

Sentinals:

Your first feat should be class skill demolitions so that you can put more
points into it the next time you level up. Choose class skill repair the 
second time you are able to select a feat. In this way you can easily and
slowly build up your skills.

Consulars:

I would go with class skill demolitions as your first feat so that you can at
least be able to disable mines in the game. After that toughness is a good
option since Consulars get the least amount of vitality per level.

F.  Powers

You don't get powers when you create your character, but you will when you
first level up.

Heal - Master Heal A

Handy to have for light players you can heal you and your party members up if
you get low on health during a fight.

Force Aura - Force Armor B

Lasting only 20 seconds is not very sufficient for long fights. Every little
bit helps though.

Burst of speed - Master Speed A+

2 attacks per round are gained at the master level and your defense is
increased. A very handy power to have. In fact I consider this a must have for
any Jedi light or dark.

Force Valor - Master Valor A

Increases attributes, immunity to poison, and affects all party members. Good
for light side players to have.

Force resistance - Force immunity A

You are better protected from an enemy's force powers. You will need this.

Energy resistance - Master energy resistance A+

Like an energy shield, energy resistance takes some energy attack damage away
from you.

Force barrier - Master Force Barrier A+

All melee attacks are reduced by a certain number of points.

Battle Meditation - Master Battle Meditation A

Gives your party a bonus to will saves, increases regeneration, and a the
master level gives a penalty to enemies who fail to save against the effect.

Force Body - Master Force Body C

I wouldn't want to use my own health to fuel force powers. I'm sure in some
areas in the game it may be useful but what if an enemy knocks down your health
while using this power? Possible danger to be knocked out. Skip it.

Revitalize - Master Revitalize A+

The master level revives all party members. I'd take it just in case light
players.

Affect Mind - Dominate Mind Universal A

Using the force to persuade others when persuade could fail...or to manipulate
others into doing what you want.

Force deflection - Force redirection Universal B-

The keyword in this power is "without a lightsaber." You will get a lightsaber
later, making this feat unnecessary.

stun - Stasis Field A+

The stasis field level freezes all enemies around you unless they save giving
you time to kill em all!

Stun droid - destroy droid A

There are a lot of droids. You will need this light players

Choke - Kill B

You can only have one target at a time and if the target saves it doesn't do
much damage. I'd only take it when all the other dark powers are taken.

Slow - Plague A+

The plague level makes it impossible to save against its effects, lowers target
attributes, and poisons the target.

Fear - Insanity A+

The insanity level has all targets around you cowering in fear giving you time
to kill em all!

Shock - Force Storm A+

Force storm level attacks all enemies around you and is a very formidable dark
power.

Force push - Force Wave A+

At the force wave level you can use this when surrounded by enemies to push
them back and, if they don't save, stun them.

Drain Life - Death Field A

The death field level allows you to take the life of all targets near you and
heal yourself up in the process. It's quite powerful, but I'd only use it if
you were low on health. Other powers do more damage.

Force Suppression - Force Breach A

Both powers cancel out certain force powers active on a target. Quite handy to
have against other Dark Jedi.

Throw Lightsaber - Advanced Throw Lightsaber F F F F F F

No. Just no. Throw your lightsaber at an enemy leaving you defenseless? No.
Skip it.

Drain Force - Improved Drain Force A

When the Force gets low whatcha gonna do? Drain Force from those around you!

Force Scream - Master Force Scream C

The damage isn't much but if the enemy doesn't save it gets attribute damage.
Plauge has a more deadly effect.

Mind Trick - Force Confusion B

Not really necessary as it only targets one enemy at a time. Fighting for you
sounds cool but you can kill the targets faster with other force powers. Take
it only if you are running out of force powers to get.

G.  Name

Pick a name. Either choose a random one or make one up yourself. I like my 
females to be named Amber Naver (because it rhymes and what Naver is spelled
backwards.) I haven't thought of a good male name yet.

H.  Play

Now it's time to play the game!

III.  Prologue

A.  General Information

The prologue is similar to the Endar Spire section of Kotor I. You control T3,
a lone astromech droid and the prologue shows you some of the basics of playing
the game. You can choose to skip the prologue to go right to your Exile or you
can complete it.

A better option for the prologue however is to partially complete it then skip
it before it is completed. Why? Items in the general inventory when the 
prologue is skipped are automatically transferred over to the exile. If you end
the prologue normally these items will be lost. It is somewhat beneficial and
time saving to have a few extra items at the beginning of the game.

B.  Ebon Hawk Interior

The goal of the prologue is to fix the Ebon Hawk, heal the Exile so you won't
die, and land the ship on station orbiting Peragus II. Pretty simple. From the
cockpit, move south then east into the security room. Open the container, get
the computer spike and use the console. Slice the system to open the door. Go
south into the main hold.

The blast doors cannot be opened. Yes there is knocking in one of them. Ignore
it you can't do anything about it. Search two broken droids for parts and a
body for a locker key. Try to open the footlocker and you can't, your security
isn't high enough. Bash it open to get a broken item and computer spikes.

Open the low security door at the south part of the room and the next low
security door down the hall and to the right. You should be in the medical
room. Open the storage bin and select your character. Use the medpack on your
character.

Go back out and all the way south. The engine room upon selecting it cannot be
opened. The game suggests going outside to find mines. We'll get there in a 
moment.

Go north and follow the side hallway west to another low security door. Open
the locker and talk to 3C-FD. Repair him and he will join your party (unless
you want to skip the prologue midway then don't repair him.) Open the combat
training box to get a field survival pistol. Equip it and attack the droids
that come out. Finally, search the unlocked cylinder to get a security spike. 
Use the security spike to open the high security cylinder.

Go back to the main hallway where the medical room entrance was. Use the lift
controls directly across the medbay to go outside the Ebon Hawk.

C.  Ebon Hawk Exterior

Take parts from the open hatches and the engine port. Use one part on the 
exposed wires to open the starboard dormitory. Go to the other side of the Ebon
Hawk. Recover the frag mines and take another mine from the proton missile. Go
back inside.

D.  To Peragus II!

If you want to skip the prologue midway so the exile can have items now is the
time to do it. Go to the Peragus II section of the guide. Otherwise read on.

Go back to the engine room door and use the mine on the engine room door.
Repair the hyperdrive. Everything that needs to be done has been done, but
there are a couple of things you can do as an option. Go back to the main hold
and enter SOLO mode (black button.) Have T3 go to the side hallway where the
inner garage door is. Use 3C-FD to slice the security console. Select access
security doors. Close the outer door and open the inner door. T3 now has access
to a workbench. You can use the workbench to create a repair kit so T3 can heal
up. Go to the other side and into the dormatory. You will find two footlockers,
one with parts and another with a droid flamethrower. Send T3 to the outer
garage door.

Switch back to 3C-FD. Close the inner door then open the outer one. Get out of
SOLO mode. Go back to the cockpit and use the galaxy map to travel to Peragus
II. The ship manages to dock onto a station.

Uh oh...what's this? Someone or something else is alive on the Ebon Hawk? Hm,
doesn't that other droid look familliar...?

IV.  Peragus II.

A.  Background

Peragus II is both a planet and an asteroid field. Fuel from Peragus explodes
at high temperatures. An accident during a mining operation caused part of the
planet to blow a chunk off of itself and created an asteroid field. Now miners
mine from the asteroids instead of the planet surface.

Enemies you fight here are droids, droids, and more droids.

B.  Quests

1.  Main Quests

Recover Ebon Hawk
Rescue T3-M4
Voiceprint Protocol

2.  Side Quests

Recent History
Medical Bay Murders
Galactic History

C.  Awaken!

Yes, you hear a random person telling you to wake up! It's time to start
playing the game with the exile.

Go forward and through the door. Open the second door you come to and raid the
medical bay container. Use security to open medical storage. If you don't have
security you can use the computer terminal near that door to open it. Raid the
supplies inside the room.

Now select the computer terminal. Access the medical logs and listen to all of
them. Once you've listened to all of them access patient lifesigns then patient
treatment. Using your treat injury skill check the last treatment request. Then
if you have computer spikes attempt to track the treatment request. If not just
remember to come back to this computer later and use a spike when you get one.
Finally access medical bay functions. Unlock door to the morgue and if you
couldn't open the security door earlier you can do so now.

Go into the morgue and search the corpse with the blanket on it to obtain a
plasma torch. After you get it...EEEK the old woman rises!

Alright this is going to be the start of dialogue trees where I give a short
statement of what the person says then what you should say. Sometimes there are
multiple ways to go with this but overall I'm going to point you in a certain
direction. I will use the first letter of the party member's name and an E for
Exile to indicate how you should respond. No other party member has a name that
starts with E so there will not be any confusion. Multiple responses that can
be taken will not always be shown because it is not necessary to include
everything. I will however show the important multiple response options. I will
also show LSP, DSP, and INF options. So it will be something like this:

X	Party member dialogue

E	DSP +INF Response option 1 dialogue
	LSP -INF Response option 2 dialogue
	Response option 3 dialogue

X	Party member dialogue

E	response dialogue

X	Party member dialogue

And so on and so forth. Sometimes you will see LS or DS next to the party 
member letter and your letter. This simply means the last option you picked
follows a specific path that is different than another option and that both
paths will lead to the same place. Example:

X	Party member dailogue

E	LSP Response option 1
	DSP Response option 2

X LS	Response to light side dialogue

E LS	Continued response to light side dialogue

X LS	Further response to light side dialogue

E LS	Continued response to light side dialogue

X DS	Response to dark side dialogue

E DS	Continued response to dark side dialogue

X	Both light and dark dialogues lead up to this dialogue

This will also be true for any time you fail an INF check with a party member
or fail at a certian skill dialogue (such as persuade.) I will use INS for 
Influence Success. When it's a skill I will use the first letter of the skill
along with S for success (for example: PS.) If you have followed my advice and
picked a Sentinal you will rarely fail a skill check.

It is very important to save your game before talking to anyone so that if for
some reason you mess up (and you shouldn't if you're following my guide) you
can reload from an earlier point instead of way back.

=======
 Kreia
=======

K	Find what you're looking for amongst the dead?

E	I thought you were dead

K	Close to death yes, closer than I'd like...

E	A little disoriented...was it your voice...

K	Yes I had hoped as much...

E	So you can touch minds...and faeign death...

K	I am Kreia, and I am your rescuer - as you are...

E	Last thing I remember, I was on board a Republic ship...

K	Your ship was attacked. You were the only survivor...

E	If you think I'm a Jedi, you're mistaken.

K	Your stance, you walk tells me you are a Jedi...

E	The Jedi Order and I have a...troubled history.

K	So it would seem. Keep your past and let us...

E	What is this place?

K	I do not know. I was removed from the events of the...

E	Why do we need to leave?

K	We were attacked once and I fear our attackers will...

E	[Awareness] you seem nervous, worried. Is something wrong?

K	Even as I slept, I felt much unrest here - I saw...

E	We'll see. There's got to be someone left alive...

K	You may wish to extend your search for some clothes...

E	[Persuade] The patients in the med bay were killed...
	[Persuade/Intimidate] The miners in the med bay were...

K	[Success] I do not know - why did they spare you?

E	They didn't. I got the same dose, but survived.

K	Indeed a Jedi trance could protect one from...

E	You seem to know a lot about Jedi techniques.

K	And so do you. Perhaps we could...

E	LSP I'll return to make sure you're all right.
	DSP Just stay out of my way, or you'll end up...

The first dialogue you get with another person is also the first opprotunity to
gain LSP or DSP. Choose what type of character you want to be before choosing
one and stick with it. Light Side Mastery and Dark Side Mastery come with good
rewards. I will refer to players as light players or dark players from now on.

Go to the equip screen and equip your plasma torch. Use it to bash down the
damaged door to the south. Search the corpse for a vibroblade and replace that
with your plasma torch. Also search the broken droid for loot.

Open the door to the southeast. Kill the droids loot any remains and go through
the next door. Kill these droids here too, loot remains, and onward through to
the next door.

No hostile droids in this room. Search the broken droid for loot and try to
open the emergency hatch. Kreia chimes in through your mind and says in her
visions the door was opened. You can't open the hatch now, so keep pressing on.

The next room is the security room. Search the corpse and locker for goodies.
Now use the security desk and check security records. Listen to all of them.

Once that's done open the north door and go through. Kreia chimes in and you
get your first force power precognition. Go onward through the door and kill
the droids. At some point in this room you will be able to level up. Kreia
talks to you again explaining that you can feel the force again. You can now
get force powers every time you level.

===============================================================================
Note:  Some force powers draw on the light side, dark side, or neither.  A 
light side character can use a dark side power, but it costs more force 
points. Force points are shown to the right of your health.  They regenerate 
slowly during combat and quickly after combat.
===============================================================================

For dark players, shock is a good starting force power as it can damage droids.
Light players can pick stun droid. Or another good idea for any player is to
pick energy resistance to shrug off some of the damage the droid blasters will
do to you.

After you level up open up the footlockers and go through the east doors. You
will emerge at the administration area. Go out and attack the droid to the
south. Go north and kill the droids in this U shaped area. South and to the
east for another droid and the Emergency Blast Door. You can't get through it
so go up the ramp near the door and kill the two droids. Go back to the middle
of the room and go south into the triangle shaped area. Kill the remaining
droids and loot the supplies. Go back to the U shaped area and enter the door
to the west. It should be clear of the force field because you killed all the
droids on the administration level.

Kreia chimes in and says someone yet lives beyond that door. She cautions you
to be careful because his thoughts are difficult to read. Enter.